This library is part of the GGI project. All libraries developed by the
GGI Project are under the term of the MIT license: 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE AUTHOR(S) BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The demos are released public domain, if not stated otherwise in their
files:

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
This software is placed in the public domain and can be used freely for
any purpose. It comes without any kind of warranty, either expressed or
implied, including, but not limited to the implied warranties of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. Use it at your own
risk. the author is not responsible for any damage or consequences raised
by use or inability to use this program.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

WWW: http://www.ggi-project.org/licensing.html
