.TH "display-ipc" 7 "2007-02-10" "libggi-current" GGI
.SH NAME
\fBdisplay-ipc\fR : Display using IPC
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nb
.nf
display-ipc: [-input] [-physz=<sizex>,<sizey>[dpi]]
             -semid=<semid> -shmid=<shmid> -socket=<socket>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
Uses a shared memory segment for inter-process communication.
Expects the client to specify the socket, semid and shmid options.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f(CW-input\fR
If the \f(CW-input\fR option is set, an input buffer of \fBINPBUFSIZE\fR
(default are 8192 bytes) as #define'd in \fBggi/display/ipc.h\fR is
allocated at the start of the requested memory area. libgii's
\f(CWinput-memory(7)\fR is internally used for the real input handling.

When running on shared memory, this option enables you to give
input (using \f(CWgiiEventSend(3)\fR) to other processes sharing
that segment. This technique is demonstrated in \f(CWcube3d(1)\fR
and can be used for things like GGI multiplexers.

.TP
\f(CW-physz=<sizex>,<sizey>[dpi]\fR
This option will provide a physical screen size for applications
which wish to remain resolution independent.  \fIsizex\fR,
\fIsizey\fR are the x,y size of the screen in millimeters, unless
the optional \f(CWdpi\fR string is affixed, in which case, they
represent resolution in dots-per-inch.

.TP
\f(CW-socket=<socket>\fR
Specify the path to the socket.

.TP
\f(CW-semid=<semid>\fR
Specify the sem id. Seem to be not used anywhere

.TP
\f(CW-shmid=<shmid>\fR
Specify the shared memory identifier to use.

On win32, \fIsid\fR is the HANDLE returned by a call to
\f(CWCreateFileMapping\fR in decimal form.

.PP
.SH FEATURES
.IP \(bu 4
DirectBuffer support always available.
.IP \(bu 4
Unaccelerated.
.PP
