.TH "display-vcsa" 7 "2004-10-14" "libggi-current" GGI
.SH NAME
\fBdisplay-vcsa\fR : Display using Linux virtual console text device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nb
.nf
display-vcsa : [ [-noinput] | [ [-nokbd] [-nomouse] ] ] [-ascii]
                 [-physz=<sizex>,<sizey>[dpi]] [-shade] [<vcsa device>]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
Uses the Linux \fB/dev/vcsa*\fR devices to render text modes onto the
console.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB'-nokbd'\fR
Do not open any libraries for keyboard input.

.TP
\fB'-nomouse'\fR
Do not open any libraries for mouse input.

.TP
\fB'-noinput'\fR
Same as both \fB'-nokbd'\fR and \fB'-nomouse'\fR.

.TP
\fB'-ascii'\fR
The \fB'-ascii'\fR option limits the color mapping to only using ASCII
characters.  The default mode uses IBM special characters (the
solid block mainly, and others when using \fB'-shade'\fR).

.TP
\fB'-shade'\fR
The \fB'-shade'\fR option turns on \fIshading mode\fR, which changes the
color mapping so that it chooses characters which emulate a
shading effect.  This makes a big improvement if using (some might
say abusing :) the vcsa target for graphical purposes.

.TP
\fB'-physz=<sizex>,<sizey>[dpi]'\fR
This option will provide a physical screen size for applications
which wish to remain resolution independent.  \fIsizex\fR,
\fIsizey\fR are the x,y size of the screen in millimeters, unless
the optional \fB'dpi'\fR string is affixed, in which case, they
represent resolution in dots-per-inch.

.TP
\fIvcsa device\fR
The filename of the device file, defaulting to \fB/dev/vcsa\fR which
draws on the current virtual console.

.PP
.SH FEATURES
.IP \(bu 4
No DirectBuffer support.
.IP \(bu 4
Unaccelerated.
.PP
