.TH "display-dga" 7 "2005-04-11" "libggi-current" GGI
.SH NAME
\fBdisplay-dga\fR : Display using XFree86-DGA extension
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nb
.nf
display-dga: [-nocursor] [-noinput] [-physz=<sizex>,<sizey>[dpi]]
             [<display>]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
Uses the XFree86 DGA extension to do fullscreen direct framebuffer
access on X servers which support this.  For systems without kernel
framebuffer support, the program must be run as root for this target
to be able to mmap \fB/dev/mem\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fIdisplay\fR
The X display to connect to, otherwise defaults to the display
specified in \fBDISPLAY\fR.

.TP
\f(CW-nocursor\fR
Normal behavior of display-x and display-xlib is to create a small
dot mouse cursor pixmap which is visible when the mouse is
positioned over the window containing the visual.  This can get in
the way of mouse cursors implemented by the application.  With
this option, you will not see an X mouse cursor when it is over
the visual.

.TP
\f(CW-noinput\fR
XF86DGA events sent to the window are not captured and merged with
any other LibGII input sources.  This allows one to take input
from raw devices without receiving duplicate events should X also
be configured to use the device.

.TP
\f(CW-physz=<sizex>,<sizey>[dpi]\fR
This option will override the physical screen size reported by the
X server, which affects applications which wish to remain
resolution independent.  \fIsizex\fR, \fIsizey\fR are the x,y size
of the screen in millimeters, unless the optional \f(CWdpi\fR string
is affixed, in which case, they represent resolution in
dots-per-inch.  Yes, there are two equals signs there, for reasons
of compatibility with other targets.

.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
\fBGGI_DGA_FBDEV\fR
specifies a framebuffer device to mmap instead of \fB/dev/mem\fR. This
allows you to use the DGA target without root privileges!

.PP
.SH FEATURES
.IP \(bu 4
DirectBuffer always available.
.IP \(bu 4
Some operations may be accelerated depending on the X server
.IP \(bu 4
Multiple frames
.IP \(bu 4
Panning
.PP
